---
date: '2008-09-03 23:30:06'
layout: blog_2009
slug: spore
status: publish
title: Spore
wordpress_id: '155'
categories:
- mac
- technology
---

Wednesday afternoon, [Arnie](http://twitter.com/avalentine/),
[Michael](http://michaelstech.wordpress.com/) and I saw a talk by Will Wright
in the Regent Street Apple Store. Will is the creator of what EA is
publicising as "the most anticipated game of 2008" (perhaps a stretch, but
it's definitely a line for the ads to use), **Spore**. He spoke about the
creation of the game, its reception so far and gave a quick demo.

I would quote what he said, but I didn't have my journalist hat on at the time
(read: couldn't be arsed to take notes), so I'll have to paraphrase. His
development group took cues from (and this is a quote) "Facebook and Myspace"
when designing the community and social interaction features of the game. In
other words, God help us all. Disclaimer: God may or may not exist, depending
on your preference du jour.

Judging by the figures he gave, Spore Creature Creator really has taken off.
I'm remembering numbers like there being 1.5 million species on Earth, and so
far Spore users have created 3.8 million. There's a great graph he used that
you can see [on Flickr](http://flickr.com/photos/ed209uk/2825171896/), which
kind of shows the boom. Apparently what God managed in seven days, Spore users
did in eighteen. And therefore they are 38% God.

Spore is out this coming Friday (the 5th September) and I'm going to be doing
my best to be getting my hands on a copy. As is my brother, but only after
seeing what the [Spore Penis Monster](http://youtube.com/watch?v=vPKvwd9vJZY)
can do.
