---
date: '2007-10-28 17:35:01'
layout: blog_2007
slug: macupdate
status: publish
title: MacUpdate
wordpress_id: '54'
categories:
- mac
---

Sorry to steal the name of a fantastic Mac software site, but that's what this
post has to be. There's been so much Apple stuff happening over the last few
days that I haven't written about.

**Leopard** was released last Friday, the 26th. People really
[seem](http://leoville.com/blog/2007/10/26/1118/) to love it, with the
exception of a few install
[problems](http://discussions.apple.com/thread.jspa?threadID=1195031). I
played on it at the Regent Street store (which was absolutely
[crazy](http://flickr.com/photos/michaelhenley/1765189643/) on Friday evening,
by the way), but don't ask me for an opinion. Using a MacBook with all the RAM
it can take (2 gigs), and a 2.16GHz processor it was incredibly snappy -
that's probably a clean (erase) install, but still. It's pretty, it's new, and
it's made by Apple… of course I'll be buying it eventually.

More to the point, for me at least, is that I just discovered Crucial are
[selling](http://crucial.com/uk/store/listparts.aspx?model=MacBook%202.0GHz%20Intel%20Core%202%20Duo%20%2813-inch%20White%29)
**2GB of RAM** for my MacBook for only £34, including P&P; - that seems
incredibly cheap, so it's another thing to add to the list.

And went to **MacLive Expo** at Olympia on Friday morning - saw some fantastic
things, including a demo of Vertus' [Fluid Mask](http://www.vertustech.com/),
Wacom's graphics tablets (refreshing seeing somebody who actually knows what
they're doing with Photoshop) and Fujitsu's ScanSnap scanner - which is
crippled in the hardware to prevent one device from being used across Mac and
Windows, by the way. Finally, meeting the folks from [RealMac
Software](http://realmacsoftware.com), who make the fantastic RapidWeaver. Oh,
and a demo from Microsoft of [Office 2008](http://macoffice2008.com) - even
though all the demo machines they had sitting around were running Office 2004,
so nobody got to play with it except [this
guy](http://flickr.com/photos/michaelhenley/1763989717/in/set-72157602726070268/).

A fantastic day, and some pretty nice times for Apple at the moment. That was
pretty full of links - I love you Google, don't do something to me that you'll
regret.

### Comments ###

By [Michael Henley](http://michaelstech.wordpress.com) on 29 October 2007 at 21:15:

> Leopard:
> 
> Read this: http://arstechnica.com/reviews/os/mac-os-x-10-5.ars
> 
> MacLive:
> 
> Agree with all - have started my write-up but postponed because I am lazy. Will
> do it soon.
> 
> Michael
