---
date: '2011-01-21 10:41:12'
layout: blog_2010
slug: fraser-speirs
status: publish
title: Fraser Speirs
wordpress_id: '704'
categories:
- education
- technology
tags:
- education
- microsoft
- school
- software
- technology
- work
---

[David](http://preoccupations.org/) was kind enough to invite me back to St
Paul’s yesterday to hear [Fraser Speirs](http://speirs.org/), the chap behind
FlickrExport and Darkslide, talk about his rollout of an iPad to every pupil
at [Cedars School of Excellence](http://cedars.inverclyde.sch.uk/) near
Glasgow.

Fraser spoke about the situation that led up to the iPad decision; the
scarcity of MacBooks in his school, the lack of faith in the iPod touch as a
complete desktop replacement. He talked about the deployment process, and how
it’s completely changed the way many subjects are taught.

The example he gave that stuck with me was Art. A teacher can use Brushes on
the iPad to create a drawing that illustrates a particular artistic technique.
Brushes will [create a ‘recording’](http://vimeo.com/10912584) (a timelapse)
of the creation, which can be exported and played back. And then, the magic:
during a class the teacher can talk over the video and carefully explain the
technique. If you’re an Art teacher and that doesn’t make you want an iPad…
I’m speechless.

Then, the Q&A; (I’m paraphrasing from memory - please correct me if I’ve got
this wrong). [George](http://twitter.com/burgesg) asked whether Fraser was
worried that he was sending kids out into the world who couldn’t use Microsoft
Office.

Fraser responded by saying that it wasn’t a worry, but it was something to
think about. He went on to say that there’s no way to tell what the world of
work will be like in 2023, when some of these kids will leave school.

Having worked in [a huge organisation](http://www.gsk.com/) for (only!) six
months so far, this worried me. I’ve experienced the brain-achingly slow rate
at which IT in corporations—at least _this_ corporation—moves. Internet
Explorer 8 was released in March 2009; it’s being pushed out in June 2011,
over two years later. Our Windows 7 release will start in November this year
and conclude in September 2014, a full five years after the retail release. By
2015, all 100,000 employees will be running Windows 7. I’m willing to bet (and
this is a _total_ guess, I don’t work in IT or have any inside information)
that even in 2023, Microsoft will be an important part of this company’s
infrastructure.

Is that a good thing? Nope, not one bit. But what’s going to happen here? Will
the next generation start avoiding job ads that require some kind of Microsoft
Office competency? I’m really worried about the future for large companies
that have such a heavy reliance on Microsoft who haven’t learnt to adapt yet.
To offer, for example, new starters the OS of their choice. This talk has
prompted some really interesting conversations here about the future of
education and work, thank you Fraser.
