---
date: '2008-09-08 17:02:26'
layout: blog_2009
slug: st-pauls
status: publish
title: St Paul's
wordpress_id: '184'
categories:
- education
tags:
- education
- life
- school
---

Everything I've learnt at [St Paul's School](http://www.stpaulsschool.org.uk/)
([Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St_Paul's_School,_London)) has been
on the same campus, from September 1998 until this summer, when I left for the
final time. I started this post at the beginning of December 2007 in the hope
that things would be fresher in my mind than they are now (that's because it
had a couple of paragraphs on everything I thought was wrong with the place; I
decided I didn't want those hanging around).

There are so many fantastic things that I need to list and, as much of a
cliché as it sounds, I really don't know where to begin. I do know that I'll
have run out of positive adjectives by the end of this post. The **friends**
I've made have been the best, and we've had more awesome moments than I can
remember. I really hate the fact that I'm listening to [Eagles – Take It to
the
Limit](http://www.last.fm/music/Eagles/_/Take%2520It%2520to%2520the%2520Limit)
while writing this, because it's making me well up inside – that said, any
song would probably do the same right now. The long lunches, sitting talking
about such specific stereotypical rubbish as "girls" and "the weekend" for two
hours, never failed to put a smile on my face. Conversations about
[sporks](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spork) and Adam snorting salt won't be
forgotten any time soon.

The second great thing was the **teaching staff**. This is the place where I
have to mention people, if only so that I remember them more clearly; Dr Gerry
Leversha, my tutor for five years, who helped take care of just about every
problem I ever had – one of the most intelligent, kind and considerate people
in the place, and I was lucky to know him; [David
Smith](http://preoccupations.org/), head of ICT since the beginning of 2007,
has changed the department (and the way it's thought of) for the better in so
many ways; and finally Okan Avni, for dealing with my UCAS application
fantastically, and not complaining when I kept on letting it get behind.

There are too many others to mention that I could fill a book with names. To
finish: Alex Wilson, Jenifer Ball, Richard Barker, Chris Fry, and even back to
James Renshaw when I was an eleven year old learning Latin. David Emery
deserves a mention; he was never really a teacher to me, but just such a
brilliant person. Let's face it, they've all had the fun of writing reports
about me for the last nine years, so it's only fair I get my chance to mention
them now ;-)

I have no idea how to end this. No idea at all, so it's going to be fast. How
about just... thank you.

### Comments ###

By Oliver Rokison on 11 December 2008 at 22:32:

> I'm decidedly miffed that I didn't get a mention in your teachers hall of fame!
> 
> Hope you're doing really well at York, and hopefully we'l get you back to talk
> to some kids (or big kids) soon.

By [Alex Muller](http://alex.mullr.net/blog/) on 12 December 2008 at 00:24:

> Haha, I'm very surprised that you found this post after all that time :)
> 
> It's really nice here - even if an awful lot of the course is a repetition of
> your teaching last year. Hope things are well there, and I hope I can visit soon
> as well.
