---
date: '2009-03-08 19:28:20'
layout: blog_2009
slug: section-76
status: publish
title: Section 76
wordpress_id: '352'
categories:
- life
tags:
- law
- london
- photography
- uk
---

Section 76 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 - introduced a few weeks back -
is very, very interesting. Essentially, it allows anyone taking pictures of
police officers (or members of the armed forces) to be arrested if there is
some any kind of possibility that the photographs will be used in the
preparation of an act of terrorism.

Obviously, this causes issues with what police officers now have the power to
do. So I've decided that it's probably worth finding out what the people on
the ground actually think, in the ineffectual, time-consuming way that only a
student can: asking them.

So today, I decided to take the first step. Knowing that this could, in fact,
be totally painful and I could be arrested on the spot for anything (wasting
police time?), I was pleasantly surprised. The policewoman I spoke to was very
well-informed about the new law, and her point of view (from what I could tell
with two minutes of talking to her) was reassuring. I asked her whether she'd
stop a journalist taking photos, to which her reply was an instantaneous "no,
because they have the right to."

Yes, she is only one person; there are well over 31,000 police constables in
London^1 and countless more across the UK. Yes, it clearly would've been better
if the law hadn't come about to start with. And yes, Gordon Brown's response
as quoted in the fourth paragraph of the [appropriate Wikipedia
section](http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Counter-Terrorism_Act_2008&oldid=275209634%23Photographs_of_police_officers_in_public_places)
does make me want to bang my head against the wall and scream. But I'm still
reserving judgement for now; it doesn't seem to be nearly as bad as it could
be.

 1. [New campaign warns criminals that police numbers are
rising](http://www.london.gov.uk/view_press_release.jsp?releaseid=1657) from
_london.gov.uk_, March 2003 and [Metropolitan Police
Service](http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Metropolitan_Police_Service&oldid=275706154)
from _Wikipedia_, March 2009
