---
date: '2010-07-17 09:04:39'
layout: blog_2010
slug: the-first-two-years
status: publish
title: The First Two Years
wordpress_id: '659'
categories:
- education
- life
tags:
- nouse
- university
- York
- ystv
---

These two years I've spent at the University of York have been absolutely
fantastic, and it's impossible to overstate how big a part the media societies
have played in me having so much fun. I'm working away from university [on a
placement](http://www.gsk.com/) this year, but before I start in the big and
scary world of "real work", I wanted to write a little about the things I've
done at York that have totally completed the experience.

### Nouse Website, Spring 2009

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p>After two thousand and fifty revisions (so says Subversion), @<a href="https://twitter.com/cnorthwood">cnorthwood</a> hits the big red button for <a href="http://www.nouse.co.uk/roses/">http://www.nouse.co.uk/roses/</a>. Enjoy :)</p>&mdash; Alex Muller (@alexmuller) <a href="https://twitter.com/alexmuller/status/1732393591" data-datetime="2009-05-07T23:55:01+00:00">May 7, 2009</a></blockquote>

This was the first time I got involved significantly in something
society-based at university, in the second term of my first year. Working with
[Ali](http://www-student.cs.york.ac.uk/~anc505/) and
[Mike](http://www.miketomasello.net/), under direction and with massive effort
from [Chris](http://www.pling.org.uk/), we recreated and iterated on the theme
for [Nouse](http://www.nouse.co.uk/), **the** student newspaper (if you know
what's right for you). It meant a load of late nights in the office, fixing
things up and getting them ready for launch; my favourite tweet of the early
morning "office HTML cluster-fuck" (after one such launch) [has to go to
Henry](http://twitter.com/henryjfoy/statuses/1271861325).

### YSTV Video Production & Website, October 2008 - Present

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p>Things that have become common since university: waking up late on Mondays and swearing I'll never do another thing for @<a href="https://twitter.com/ystv">ystv</a> or @<a href="https://twitter.com/yorknouse">yorknouse</a>.</p>&mdash; Alex Muller (@alexmuller) <a href="https://twitter.com/alexmuller/status/1761871055" data-datetime="2009-05-11T09:58:43+00:00">May 11, 2009</a></blockquote>

Looking back, over the last two years [YSTV](http://ystv.york.ac.uk/) is the
best thing I've done at York. I've met so many more people there than I would
have anywhere else on campus and I couldn't be more pleased that I decided to
get involved. From being [Matthew](http://matthewtole.com/)'s bitch in the
very first term (filming footage for the [York Sport
Show](http://ystv.york.ac.uk/watch/York-Sport/)) all the way up to last term,
working on the website with more people than I'll be able to mention.
[Mark](http://twitter.com/markusfriend) and [Simon](http://pearfalse.co.uk/)
somehow managed to get me [in front of the
camera](http://ystv.york.ac.uk/watch/ManMan/Episode1/), though I'm not sure
how that even came close to happening. Hopefully I'll be staying involved in
the website this year, from about two hundred miles away.

### York Students In Schools, January 2009 - May 2009

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p>Spent the afternoon making shadoofs with a class of nine year olds. Most brilliant, satisfying thing I've done since I've been here.</p>&mdash; Alex Muller (@alexmuller) <a href="https://twitter.com/alexmuller/status/1142299766" data-datetime="2009-01-23T16:22:41+00:00">January 23, 2009</a></blockquote>

I'm not sure why I decided to join YSIS, but I'm so glad I did. In the second
term I was helping one afternoon a week in a primary school (Dunnington Church
of England), and this year I've been assisting with ICT at [All Saints RC
School](http://www.allsaints.york.sch.uk/). All the teaching has been valuable
experience, but seeing the ICT curriculum being taught in a real school, to
real kids, has made David's [somewhat different
approach](http://sites.google.com/a/stpaulsschool.org.uk/4th-form-ict-0910/home)
so much more important. The teaching quality that I saw at All Saints was
amazing, but when the syllabus dictates that you need to teach pupils how to
print from Microsoft Access and exactly what that obscure button in PowerPoint
does, there's only so far you can go.

### Do More Stuff

If there's one thing that it was important for me to take away from here, it
is this: you might not get on with every single person you come across (can
you ever?), but there is absolutely no reason you won't get along with most of
them. You might even have fun.
